.ds PN flowvisor

.TH flowvisor 8 "May 2008" "FlowVisor" "FlowVisor Manual"

.SH NAME
flowvisor \- OpenFlow network slicing daemon

.SH AUTHOR

Rob Sherwood <rob.sherwood@stanford.edu>

Ali Al-Shabibi <ali.al-shabibi@stanford.edu>

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B flowvisor
[-d \fIdebug\fR] [-h] [-l] [-p \fIport\fR] [\fIconfig.json\fR] 

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B flowvisor
program is a daemon that logically slices an OpenFlow-enabled switch into multiple, logical switches each controlled by a different OpenFlow controller. 

For more details, see:

"Can the Production Network Be the Test-bed?" 
Rob Sherwood, Glen Gibb, Kok-Kiong Yap, Guido Appenzeller, Martin Casado, Nick McKeown, Guru Parulkar.
Symposium for Operating Systems Design and Implementation, 2010

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
-d \fIdebug\fR
Overrides debugging threshold in config.json and sets it to \fIdebug\fR.  Does not modify config.json.
Mostly used for manual debugging.  The string \fIdebug\fR must be one of MOBUG, DEBUG, NOTE, INFO, WARN, ALERT, CRIT,
and FATAL (in order of increasing priority/verbosity) similar to syslog(3).

.TP
-h
Prints the version number and usage information and exits.


.TP
-l
Logs to stderr instead of to syslog()

.TP
-p \fIport\fR
Overrides listenning port from config.json and sets it to \fIport\fR.  Does not modify config.json.
Mostly used for manual debugging.

.TP
\fIconfig.json\fR
Supplying the input config file will cause Flowvisor to overwrite the config in its embedded database with whatever is in the config file. 

.SH ENVIRONMENT

.TP 
FV_JVM_ARGS

The override the default arguments to the JVM with those in $FV_JVM_ARGS.
May be useful for increasing memory efficiency or playing with special
JVM optimizations, like fancy garbage collectors.

.TP
FV_DEBUG_PORT

Turns on remote debugging support for the JVM and sets the JVM to
listen on port $FV_DEBUG_PORT.  This is useful for attaching a
remote debugger, e.g., `jdb -attach fvserver.foo.com:$FV_DEBUG_PORT`.
\fINOTE\fR: there is no security in the JVM debugging protocol, so
by enabling this option you potentially open your running FlowVisor
to remote control/manipulation.  FV_DEBUG_PORT is specified as
\fI[local_address:]port\fR, where \fIlocal_address\fR defaults to "all
interfaces", so if you are interested in binding to a specific
interface, e.g., the loopback interface on port 12345, can set
FV_DEBUG_PORT=localhost:12345 .  See
\fIhttp://download.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/technotes/guides/jpda/conninv.html#Invocation\fR
for more information.



.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR fvctl (1)
.BR fvconfig (1)
