.ds PN fvconfig

.TH fvconfig 1 "May 2012" "FlowVisor" "FlowVisor Manual"

.SH NAME
fvconfig \- commandline tool to administer FlowVisor

.SH AUTHOR

Rob Sherwood <rob.sherwood@stanford.edu>
 
Ali Al-Shabibi <ali.al-shabibi@stanford.edu>

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fvconfig match config.json \fIdpid\fR \fImatch\fR

.B fvconfig load config.json

.B fvconfig chpasswd config.json \fIslicename\fR

.B fvconfig convert config.json

.B fvconfig query config.json \fIdpid\fR \fI[slicename]\fR

.B fvconfig generateCert \fI[hostname]\fR

.B fvconfig generate newconfig.json \fI[hostname]\fR \fI[admin_passwd]\fR \fI[of_port]\fR \fI[api_port]\fR

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B fvconfig
program is a command line tool for manipulating the flowvisor's configuration
directly, as opposed to through a running flowvisor instance (SEE fvctl(1)).
As such, fvconfig relies on standard file permissions instead of flowvisor
user permissions.  Also, fvconfig should 
.B NOT
be used to modify the configuration of a running flowvisor as your changes will be overwritten.  To modify
the configuration with fvconfig, you must kill the flowvisor first, and the changes will take effect
once the flowvisor is restarted.

.SH COMMANDS

.TP
\fBmatch\fR
    Used for debugging, asks the flowvisor to list which rules match the given match 
    structure.  The format of the match is as described in fvctl(1). 

.TP
\fBload\fR
    Can be used to prepopulate the configuration from the given file. Note that
    the configuration in the database, if any, will be overwritten. 

.TP
\fBchpasswd\fR \fIslicename\fR
    Changes the password for a slice.  Useful for resetting the admin password
    if it is forgotten.  This command does modify the configuration, so should
        not be used on a running flowvisor.

.TP
\fBquery\fR \fIdpid\fR \fI[slicename]\fR
    Two useful debugging commands.  If the slice name is not specified, this command will
    list the slices that have the specified DPID in their slice.  If the slice name is 
    specified, it will list the ports of the DPID that are used by this slice.

.TP
\fBconvert\fR
    Converts old json configuration file to a json file. The output filename is the same but the extension is changed to .json.

.TP
\fBgenerateCert\fR \fI[hostname]\fR
    This command generates a new SSL Key store (mySSLKeyStore) with \fIhostname\fR as the
    SSL common name.  If no hostname is specified, the output from /bin/hostname is used.
.TP
\fBgenerate\fR  newconfig.json \fI[hostname]\fR \fI[admin_passwd]\fR \fI[of_port]\fR \fI[api_port]\fR
    Generate a new config.  This command also generates a new
    configuration file, complete with example slices Alice and Bob.
    FVconfig will prompt for a password for the initial admin account
    if one is not specified on the command-line.  The config listens on
    port \fIof_port\fR (default: 6633) for OpenFlow switches and port
    \fIapi_port\fR for the jsonRPC server (default: 8080).  Likely, if
    this config file is actually to be used, the first thing to do would
    be to delete the Alice and Bob slices, and then populate it with
    your own slices.  This command also generates a new SSL Key store
    (mySSLKeyStore) with hostname as the SSL common name (i.e., same as
    'generateCert').

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.BR flowvisor (8),
.BR fvctl (1)
